# Game Rules

## The Rat Race
Each Player will start in the Rat Race. The wheel of the Rat Race represents the life of most people who spend their time going around in circles and never getting ahead financially. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Getting out of the Rat Race

#### Cashflow THE E-GAME (101)
In order to get out of the Rat Race your Passive Income must be GREATER than your TOTAL EXPENSES. To do this, you must buy investments which give you Cash Flow (or passive income).

#### Cashflow 202 THE E-GAME: 
To get out of the Rat Race your Passive Income must be EQUAL to or GREATER than TWO TIMES your TOTAL EXPENSES. 

For example: As the Truck Driver, you have Total Expenses of $1,620. Your Passive Income must be equal to or greater than $3,240 before you can exit the Rat Race. To create Passive Income, you must buy investments which give you Cash Flow.

Your 1st goal: Get out of the Rat Race and onto the Fast Track.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## The Fast Track

The Fast Track is the outer track in the game, it is also where the rich play the game of money in life. Once you've moved from the Rat Race to the Fast Track your goal is: 

#### Cashflow THE E-GAME (101)
1.) Buy your own dream 
OR
2.) Accumulate $50,000 in Fast Track Cash Flow by buying Fast Track businesses.

#### Cashflow 202 THE E-GAME
1.) Accumulate $50,000 or more in Cash Flow from businesses bought on the Fast Track 
AND 
2.) Buy your own dream OR any two other dreams.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Cashflow Game Play FAQ

`Q. How many people can play Cashflow? Can I play on my own?`

A: Cashflow was designed to be played by more than one player. Better interaction occurs when 3 to 6 people are playing. By inviting your friends to join you in playing Cashflow, your learning experience will be heightened by the interaction of your group. You can also play CASFHLOW the Web game absolutely free on the website. Please note: You'd have to be registered as a free community member to gain access.

`Q. When I purchase real estate, there is a cash flow amount stated on the card (plus or minus). Is this amount the net amount after the mortgage payment or do I have to calculate a mortgage loan payment? Can I pay off a real estate mortgage on an investment property and then increase my passive income?`

A: Real estate mortgages cannot be paid off on investment properties in Cashflow 101. The mortgage payment is calculated in determining the ROI and the monthly cash flow. It is as if you have a property manager who handles the property for you, collects the rents, pays the expenses including the related mortgage and then sends you the balance each month (assuming it is +).

`Q. If I land on the downsized square and I do not have enough cash on hand, can I sell my stock to the bank for the price at which it was purchased? May I borrow the money from the bank?`

A: You may not sell your stock to the bank. Stock is only available at the price indicated by an opportunity or market card when drawn by a player. You may, however, take a loan from the bank.

`Q. If I don't have enough cash, can I borrow money from the bank to make the down payment for an investment property?`

A: Yes. You may borrow money from the bank to raise enough cash for the down payment on an investment property. BUT remember you must include the bank loan as a liability and 10% of the loan amount must be recorded as a monthly expense. This means that your cash flow is adjusted up by the cash flow generated by the property and down by the amount of your monthly loan payment.

`Q. If I am almost out of the rat race, can I borrow money from the bank to raise enough cash to buy an investment that will give me enough passive income to get out of the rat race and onto the fast track?`

A: If, through the loan, you are able to purchase enough passive income to get out of the rat race- congratulations! Remember you must increase your expenses to include the amount you have to pay in loan payments before you calculate whether your new passive income exceeds your expenses.

`Q. When a market card is drawn that says "anyone can sell at this price" does that mean I can sell all my holdings that match the description on the card, or only one?`

A: You and any other player may sell any or all of your holdings that match the description on the card.

`Q. If I am downsized can I sell stock or real estate while I am missing my turns, when the cards are drawn by other players?`
A: Yes. You may still take advantage of the opportunities presented by cards drawn by other players as long as the card specifies "anyone can...".

`Q. When I am downsized, why can't I still receive my passive income even though I am missing my turns?`

A: When you are downsized, you are correct that you lose your earned income but not your passive income. However, you also continue to have to pay your monthly expenses. This means that you would owe the bank money (the amount your expenses exceed your passive income) for each turn until you find a new job. If you are one of the higher paid professions this could force you into bankruptcy early in the game. For ease of play we chose to have you miss two turns entirely instead of having to calculate the amount due the bank for each turn or face bankruptcy early in the game.

`Q. Why don't you reduce the mortgage liability on your home as you make monthly payments?`
A: In real life, you would in fact do this. For ease of play in the game, we do not adjust the principal amount of the mortgage. Most mortgages are long term in nature and, for purposes of this game, a level monthly mortgage payment is assumed.

`Q. Since my monthly expenses include credit card payments, shouldn't I reduce the liability as each payment is made (at each pay day)?`

A: Most people make monthly payments on their credit cards, but also charge new amounts on the credit card as well. Therefore, the game assumes a steady level of credit card debt that does not fluctuate from month to month. (Unless you choose to pay off the entire liability and therefore you would eliminate the monthly payment as well, in essence you have paid off your entire credit card bill and cut up your credit card so no new charges may be made.)

`Q. If I am trying to reduce my monthly expenses by paying off my liabilities, may I pay them off in pieces?`

A: We suggest that the entire amount of the liability (eg. Credit card debt) be paid off and then you can erase the entire related credit card expense. Your total expenses would then be reduced by the amount of your monthly credit card expense payment.

`Q. I made it out of the Rat Race. Do I receive my Cashflow Day Income?`

A: Yes. As soon as you are out of the Rat Race, you receive your Cashflow Day Income. You do NOT have to wait to pass the first Cashflow Day on the Fast Track.

`Q. We made it out of the Rat Race and out on the Fast Track! Can you explain how to calculate "My New Cashflow Day Income" goal to win?`

A: Multiply Your Passive Income received from the Rat Race by 100. Then add $50,000 to that figure. This is your New Cashflow Day Income goal needed to win. Remember you can still win by landing on and buying your Dream.

`Q. When I am on the Fast Track, do I have to buy a dream when I land on one?`

A: No. Not unless you choose to buy the dream.

`Q. Why would I want to buy a dream on the Fast Track other than the one I picked at the beginning of the game?`

A: Congratulations! You have identified one of the built in lessons found on the Fast Track. If you have game play questions that have not been covered, please click on the CONTACT US button at the bottom of the page and send an e-mail.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Cashflow Game Play

`Q. Do I have to own Cashflow 101 before I purchase Cashflow 202?`

A: Yes. You must have 101 in order to play 202 since 202 uses the game board and playing pieces from 101. We recommend you play Cashflow 101 at least six times before playing Cashflow 202. 202 builds upon the basic skills learned in 101 and adds more sophisticated investment strategies as well as more market volatility.

`Q. Can I still buy and sell stock as I did in playing Cashflow 101?`

A: Yes, you may still buy and sell stocks as you did in playing Cashflow 101, but now you may also trade in stock options and sell stock short.

`Q. On page 7 of the rule book for Cashflow 202 the boardgame, there are two examples given for exercising call and put options. If you follow the calculations through, the "Amount Receive (d-c) x a" reads $2,000 for the Call calculation and $1,000 for the Put calculation respectively. Is this correct?`

A: No, this is a misprint. The correct amounts should be $4,000 and $2,000 respectively. Please correct your instruction book to reflect the correct amounts. While the error was caught early and most have been corrected, the initial shipments of Cashflow 202 may contain instruction books that were not corrected. We apologize for this error.

`Q. On page 4 and 5 of the instruction book you describe the net profit for a call and put. Why does this calculation not agree with the example in the boxes on page 7?`

A: The net profit calculations differ from the cash flow calculations. The purchase of the option (outflow of cash) occurs before you exercise the option (inflow of cash--hopefully). If on page 7 you take the dollar from the "Amount Receive" column and subtract the amount paid for the option "Total Amt. Paid" you will have the net profit calculation as described on page 4 and 5. However, when you exercise the option, it is the cash flow calculation that determines what you receive from the bank.